All right, and now we're at the section of the course where we're going to
start talking
about ERC 20s and tokens.
So you can find the code associated with what we're going through in the GitHub
repo, of
course, associated with this course.
Now before we actually even go into building one of these, I know we've
actually worked
with them a little bit with the link token, but let's actually understand what
an ERC
20 is, what an EI P is, what an ERC is.
And I actually have video for my previous course, which goes over this.
So let's go ahead and watch that.
Before we can understand what an ERC 20 is or even what one of these tokens are
, we first
need to understand what is an ERC and then also what is an EIP.
In Ethereum and Avalanche and Binance and Polygon, all these blockchains have
what's
called improvement proposals.
And for Ethereum, they're called Ethereum improvement proposals or EIPs.
And what people would do is they come up with these ideas to improve Ethereum
or improve
these layer ones like Polygon, Matic, Avalanche, etc.
And on some GitHub or some open source repository, they'll add these new EIPs.
They'll add these new improvement ideas to make these protocols better.
Now these improvements can really be anything.
It can be anything from a core blockchain update to some standard that is going
to be
a best practice for the entire community to adopt.
Once an EIP gets enough insight, they also create an ERC, which stands for
Ethereum request
for comments.
So EIP, Ethereum improvement proposals, ERC, Ethereum request for comments.
And again, these can be like BEP, PEP, etc.
For all these different blockchains, both the improvement proposals and the
request for
comments all have these different tags.
Now, they're numbered chronologically.
So something like an ERC 20 is going to be the 20th ERC/EIP.
The ERCs and the EIPs share that same number.
And their websites like EIPs.Athereum.org, they keep track of all these new
Ethereum improvement
proposals.
And you can actually see them real time go through the process of being adopted
by the
community.
Now, one of these EIPs or ERCs is going to be the ERC 20 or the token standard
for smart
contracts.
This is an improvement proposal that talks about how to actually create tokens
and create
these smart contract tokens.
I made a video about this recently.
So in the GitHub repo associated with this course, we're going to have a sub
lesson and
we're going to watch a quick video that explains more about these different
tokens.
Now, first, let's define even what are ERC 20s.
Your ERC 20s are tokens that are deployed on a chain using what's called the E
RC 20
token standard.
You can read more about it in the ERC 20 token standard here, link in the
description
as well.
But basically, it's a smart contract that actually represents a token.
So it's token, but it's smart contract.
It's both.
It's really cool.
Tether, Chainlink, Unitoken and Die are all examples of ERC 20s.
Technically, Chainlink is in the ERC 677 as there are upgrades to the ERC 20
that some tokens
take that are still backwards compatible with ERC 20s.
And so basically, you can think of them as ERC 20s with a little additional
functionality.
Now, why would I even care to want to make an ERC 20?
Well, you can do a lot of really cool stuff with it.
You make governance token, you can secure an underlying network.
You can create some type of synthetic asset or really anything else.
In any case, how do we build one of these ERC 20s?
How do we build one of these tokens?
Well, all we have to do is build a smart contract that follows the token
standard.
All we have to do is build a smart contract that has these functions, that has
a name
function, a symbol function, decimal function, etc.
All these functions, we need to be able to transfer it.
We need to be able to get the balance of it, etc.
And again, if you want to check out some of the improvements that are still ERC
20 compatible,
like the ERC 677 or the ERC 777, you definitely go check those out and build
one of those